now on this episode of China uncensored
crippled petitioner blows himself up at
Chinese Airport hi welcome to China
uncensored I'm your watermelon vendor
Chris Chappell
you know it's ironic that the Communist
Party established the People's Republic
of China because it certainly isn't a
republic and by no means does it
represent the people of China that could
be why more and more the Chinese people
are becoming increasingly vocal about
their distaste for the party and how it
rules China I have some 2009 figures
from the PLA see that's the massively
powerful and shadowy internal security
apparatus called the political and
legislative affairs committee guess how
many mass protests China had that year
alone 500 nope more two thousand fifty
thousand it was way higher actually
230,000 mass incidents as they call it
in one year that's more than 600
protests each day by Chinese people who
are angry with the authorities the New
York Times said last year that these
demonstrations or riots against corrupt
local party authorities are often put
down by force that's an awful lot of
angry and frustrated Chinese people with
very little recourse for how they're
being treated that's why at the
beginning of July the Chinese regime
tried something a little different
they created an online petition site
it's meant to make it easier for people
to file complaints against the
government it crashed the first morning
servers got too many petitions now for
centuries people have been allowed to go
to Beijing to petition even directly to
the Emperor of course some local
officials would try to prevent
petitioners from getting there and after
the Chinese regime started to punish
local governments for having too many
petitioners and reward them when there
were fewer those local officials made
sure to stop as many petitions as they
can from reaching Beijing petitioners
are routinely rounded up arrested and
harassed often beaten and usually when
they do manage to get their petition
submitted they don't hear anything back
that's driven a lot of people to
desperation that's what happened just
recently was 34 year old ji Jong seeing
at the Beijing Capital International
Airport that's him in the wheelchair and
that's him
blowing himself up he's not dead only
injured in fact he was the only one
injured primarily because he warned
everyone to get away before setting off
the explosive device which was something
akin to fireworks according to state-run
Xinhua news agency the airport didn't
even delay flights because of it talk
about not getting your voice heard ji is
originally from eastern China when he
was about 26 he claims he was attacked
by Cheung Guang in southern Guangdong
province when he worked as a motorcycle
taxi service
he said that Chung Guang knocked him off
his motorcycle and brutally beat him
though they say he just fell off his
bike he was left paralyzed from the
attack and had been petitioning for
compensation since if you don't know
what a Cheung Wong is here's a fun video
of them fulfilling their duty of
managing street vendors
[Music]
I'm sure Jesus fell off his bike and
guess what geez explosive outbursts came
just a few days after a watermelon
vendor was murdered by Chung Guang the
watermelon vendor was 56 year old dong
Jung Hwa Chong Guang destroyed his
melons beat him and delivered the
finishing blow with one of his own
sliding measurement White's to his head
his wife was there to watch that's the
exact same thing that happened in 2011
to another fruit vendor named dong chi
Gua beaten to death by Chung Guang and
so you have a lot of people getting very
angry that Chinese authorities get to
beat and kill people and yet seem to
manage to get away with it and that's
why in cases like Gaeseong Shing people
are siding with the guy with the bomb
instead of calling them terrorists like
people do with Timothy McVeigh that
should tell you something's very rotten
in China and G hasn't been the only
petitioner to blow themselves up when
they became desperate the same thing
happened last year with a guy named -
Hwang Chung he was also a petitioner who
had been paralyzed this time in a
work-related accident after years of
petitioning for compensation and getting
nowhere he blew himself up at a
government building killing himself and
injuring six officials people weren't
tucán
about the officials but Chu was called a
hero which then brings us to a very
interesting idea the right to revolution
it's a political philosophy that says
it's the right or duty of the people of
a nation to overthrow a government that
acts against the best interests of the
people guess which country was the first
to codify that theory the United States
France China over 3,000 years ago the
founders of the Jo dynasty overthrew the
previous rulers of the Shang Dynasty and
created a concept that would be used
throughout Chinese history the Mandate
of Heaven tin that's the character for
heaven chooses just rulers and when
rulers become corrupt the Mandate of
Heaven moves on if someone is able to
overthrow the old regime that means the
Mandate of Heaven has passed to them
with all these math incident protests
and individuals taking desperate
measures to protest against authorities
it would appear to me that the Communist
Party might just be the most recent bad
emperor so what do you think is in store
for China the Chinese people and the
Chinese Communist Party will these
outbursts remain isolated incidents or
could something bigger be brewing thanks
for watching this episode of China
uncensored you can check out China
uncensored Twitter or Facebook account
for more I'm Chris Chappell see you
tomorrow with another new episode
[Music]